okay this is um
cutting the new post and oak new post to
the right height from from the store
this is too tall for for the handrail
what I did was I needed to know how much
to cut off of this from the bottom and
you don't want it you know you don't
want it looking different than the ones
upstairs so you kind of want to be you
want to die into the same spot in this
case I marked the centerline of this
area this height which is five inches so
it's two and a half inches to the center
to this point I measured that height
from the floor now this is again misses
as is from the from the store that
height from the floor a pepper I plumbed
it up is forty nine and a half inches so
that's the line it's sort of like my my
datum you know the the reference line as
you work off of what what do you want to
do is figure out from your next now you
want to figure out from your stair
treads how high up you want your
handrail and that's usually between 34
and 38 or 36 and 38 depending on your
area - 36 to 38 is the height of the
handrail so I measured up to 36 inches
from the from the face of the stair up
to here and there's a little faint line
but again they see it but it's 36 inches
up from the floor which is here up to
that same mark is 43 inches so you can
see where I'm going I can't just you
know put the handrail here if I could if
I leave it as is the handrail would die
into this line which is I want to die
into this line which is more natural not
down here unless you really want to tall
post but I want it to be this is the
reference
fine so if this is 36 or 43 depending on
your reference point 43 now from the
same spot which is the floor up to this
line which is 49 and a half the
difference between that is what you need
to cut off so I cut off 6 and a half
inches and that's effective take it to
the soft chop that whole bad boy off and
now when you go up to the ok you can see
this then there we go
the black line is the 36 inch mark
there you go 36 so just by taking off
now what happened at this center line
just post the handrail will will die
into it about 36 inches is will leave
the centerline of the handrail the hem
will have you know certain dimension
higher or lower longer them within that
range I'm working off the centerline so
Maggie and your height restrictions
change by area so my can go from 36 to
38 so I have enough clap top to allow to
move up and down but if you have a
different handrail style you should
probably take that whole dimension to
make sure you within that range so
you're not going to be out of code
anyway now we're going to pre-drill from
both sides because I don't have a bit
long enough to go all the way through
lag bolts lag bolts into there and then
set the post and then I can cut the
handrail to length put the rosette right
there on the wall and then measure that
angle or make sure it's going to die
into this center point of this post next